hey this is presto Walker here's a math
problem that's stumping the internet
right now this question was asked to 5th
graders in China if a ship had 26 sheep
and 10 goats aboard how old is the
ship's captain this problem has gotten a
lot of media coverage and I even covered
it in a previous video but we all missed
the real story this problem was actually
devised by french researchers nearly 40
years ago and it does teach a valuable
lesson about math class so in this video
I'm gonna go over the real story that no
media outlet has covered so far before I
get to that I want to quickly go over
the media coverage and what some
possible answers have been proposed so
this problem really got coverage around
the world from the South China Morning
Post from RT from the BBC from the
Washington Post and even in Newsweek the
media coverage focused on solving the
problem the most sensible answer I saw
that was quoted in the BBC comes from
one wave o commenter who writes the
total weight of 26 sheep and 10 goat is
7700 kilograms
based on the average weight of each
animal now I did a little bit of
fact-checking you would actually get
seven thousand seven hundred pounds if
you did this search in Wolfram Alpha but
let's just forget this little nitpick
and go with seven thousand seven hundred
kilograms so continuing that response in
China if you're driving a ship that has
more than 5,000 kilograms of cargo
you need to have possess a boat license
for at least five years the minimum age
for getting a bolts license is 23 so the
captain is at least 28 that's a
remarkable leap in logic but if it
sounds too crazy for you keep in mind
that these kinds of deduction
are very common in Sherlock Holmes
stories take an example from the Hound
of the Baskervilles from examining a
walking stick of a man he has never met
Sherlock Holmes deduces the man is under
30 years old he's a family doctor and
that he owns a dog so the official
response in China is that the question
was not a mistake it was actually meant
to be open-ended and encourage critical
thinking which is usually not present in
math class that would be the end of the
story
except this problem did not have its
source in China the real story is the
problem was originally asked by French
researchers in 1979 this problem is
nearly 40 years old I learned about the
problems origin from Benjamin Dickman
who has a PhD in mathematics education
from Columbia University
Benjamin heard about the problem because
he believes that many people in math
education have heard about this problem
in similar problems and he tweeted about
it and you could check out his Twitter
profile twitter.com slash Benjamin
Dickman so from the sources that he
tweeted and sent we can actually find in
1979 French researchers as 1st and 2nd
graders the following problem on the
boat there are 26 sheep and 10 goats
what is the age of the captain I
couldn't believe it when I was seeing
this this problem has been asked nearly
40 years ago in almost exactly the same
wording so what was the point of this
exercise well from reading some of these
sources the researchers had expected
that most students would think the
question is absurd the correct answer
would have to be there is not enough
information but what they found was
shocking more than 3/4 of students
actually tried to solve
the problem by manipulating the numbers
they said something like okay the age
must be 26 plus 10 which equals 36 very
few students question if the problem was
even solvable in fact this was not just
a fluke result the study was replicated
on a larger scale in countries including
France Germany and Switzerland even by
researchers who thought this was not
even possible
they were antagonistic to this
hypothesis that students would just
manipulate numbers and they found the
same thing gene where chenko emailed me
about this related problem his blog has
math and logic problems usually simpler
than mine and it has other post you can
visit his blog at gene WCA
so the related question is the following
there are 125 sheep and five dogs in a
flock how old is the shepherd well once
again you would expect the correct
answer that there is not enough
information to solve the problem but
researchers found shocking results again
many students produce answers by
manipulating the numbers in the question
one student reasoned along the following
lines
well 125 plus 5 equals 130 that's too
old of an age and 125 minus 5 equals 120
that's also too old of an age but 125
divided by five equals 25 sounds about
right
so the student concluded the shepherd is
25 years old so what's the lesson in all
of this the so called Chinese test
question that went viral was really a
French research question from nearly 40
years ago for such an absurd question
the correct answer is that there is not
enough information and I give credit to
the school in China for asking this
question we still need to improve the
critical thinking skills of students in
math class
we still keep thinking that every
problem we get is solvable and it should
be solvable just by manipulating the
numbers we get but we should always
think gels the question actually makes
sense
is there enough information to solve it
so that's the real story to this viral
math question from China thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
if you like this video you can check out
my books which are linked in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon if you have a suggestion for a
puzzle or a math topic you can email me
at pressure at mind your decisions calm
and you can also catch me on social
media either at mind your decisions or
at pressure to Walker